# 23 February 2026 | MessageFormat Working Group Teleconference

Attendees:

- Eemeli Aro \- Mozilla (EAO)  
- Mihai Niță \- Google (MIH)  
- Tim Chevalier \- Igalia (TIM)  
- Shane Carr \- Google (SFC)  
- Richard Gibson \- OpenJSF (RGN)

**Scribe:** MIH  

## Updates from Implementers

EAO: Came across [another package](https://adamj.eu/tech/2026/02/09/python-introducing-icu4py/) adding Python bindings for ICU4C. Its support for MF2 [is blocked](https://github.com/adamchainz/icu4py/issues/17%20) waiting for its ICU4C implementation to exit tech preview. ICU4C is still blocked?

TIM: Yes, still waiting for review

MIH: Fredrik assigned

EAO: I discussed bringing MF2 into Python proper during FOSDEM. But it depends on other formatters. Which don’t really exist in Python. It looks like it may become easier to have Rust bindings for Python. @SFC: do you know about this?

SFC: we know about one of the efforts

EAO: Do you have a timeframe for ICU4X in Python?

SFC: someone has to ask for it. It’s in diplomat. All they need is to “plug it in”

EAO: and the ask should be where?

SFC: should be an ICU4X issue

EAO: Most of my coding work is in Python, but it is a lot of working on messages, not formatting. Need either native implementations, or bindings to C or Rust. Both would open a door for MF in Python.

## Open Issue Review

EAO: do we have something we actually want to work on, even if we don’t have the bandwidth?  
If not, then we can look at longer term issues as a second bucket.  
Last bucket are issues that maybe don’t plan to do anymore.

### [Provide standard pronoun handling \#35](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/35)

TIM: seems out of scope

MIH: pronouns seems pretty narrow. And it is different from grammatical gender.

### [Clarifications needed on the XLIFF mapping \#169](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/169)

EAO: out of scope

### [Question about grammatical case \#578](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/578)

EAO: I think this depends on the inflection engine

EAO: not actionable

### [Review non-integral exact number selection algorithm \#675](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/675)

EAO: Do we care?

MIH: We promised compatibility with MF1, and MF1 can do selection on non-integral value.  
But I am not aware of messages using it.

EAO: We can leave it dormant until someone asks for it.

### [Restrict literals for :date and :time \#680](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/680)

EAO: real issue, I think it has to be done.

### [Add optional normative guidance on bidi/whitespace serialization \#889](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/889)

EAO: I think this is a real issues, not short term

### [Well-formed vs valid \#935](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/935)

EAO: some of it is obsolete, since we don’t have locale anymore

RGN Is there an area where is a confusion now?

EAO: probably need to address it offline

### [\[FEEDBACK\] Be more specific about time zone IDs \#962](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/962)

EAO: to do before date / time

### [Support formatting ranges of numbers \#957](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/957)

EAO: to do, but not urgent

### [\[FEEDBACK\] bidi clarifications \#958](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/958)

EAO: Me or Addison

### [\[FEEDBACK\] Don't include a time zone option, or be strict if you do \#961](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/961)

EAO: in the same bucket with time and other tz issues

### [\[FEEDBACK\] Resolution between input calendar and message calendar \#963](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/963)

EAO: look at what MF1 does and what Intl does.

### [Test checking the markup arguments \#1005](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/1005)

MIH: one can make an argument for both ways.

MIH: would be a pain to ask translators to use both `u:dir` and `dir`, sometimes both, sometimes just one.

MIH: for a rendering engine it is easier to decide what to generate if we have one single tag.

EAO: let’s leave it open… But maybe re-title it to be more focused. Make it about `u:dir`.

### [\[FEEDBACK\] Specify what kind of user \#1032](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/1032)

EAO: review spec

MIH: 47 lines with “user” in the `spec` folder.

### [Be more specific about defining resolved values \#1095](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/1095)

EAO: probably still something to do here

### [Resolve hour12 and hourCycle \#1097](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/1097)

MIH: we should keep an eye on what TC does.

EAO: have @MIH and @SFC take a look at it.

### [The offset selection a lot clunkier than the MF1 one \#1099](https://github.com/unicode-org/message-format-wg/issues/1099)

MIH: assign the issue to me.

## Other topics

EAO: @MIH look at the only open PR \#1098  
*“Add first draft of default attribute definitions \#1098”*

EAO: I will create an issue about a machine readable function registry.

## Documentation Site

Site: [http://messageformat.unicode.org/](http://messageformat.unicode.org/)

Sources: [https://github.com/unicode-org/messageformat.dev](https://github.com/unicode-org/messageformat.dev)

MIH: Let’s ping someone in the unicode-org to give us right to submit to the github repo

EAO: I will ping Steven Loomis

EAO: also need to figure out where this is published.

EAO: and update to the latest spec. It is probably behind.

## Meeting Cadence

EAO: let’s still have a meeting next week. We don’t have SFC and TIM to discuss cadence.  
